Single page version of the main menu options (#528)
Unity-Technologies/com.unity.probuilder: Documentation~/menu.md

# The ProBuilder menu

Use the ProBuilder menu to access most of the ProBuilder editors, actions, tools, and features that are only available through this menu. For example, you can repair and debug ProBuilder, or access the experimental [Boolean operations](boolean.md).

## Editors

Create new shapes and open editor windows.

| **Menu item** | **Description** |
| --- | --- |

> | **New Bezier Shape** | Use the **Bezier Shape** tool to define a Bezier curve around which ProBuilder extrudes a Mesh. **Warning:** This tool is experimental, meaning that it's still under development, and might reduce ProBuilder's stability. Use with caution. For more information, refer to [Bezier Shape tool](bezier.md). |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| **New Bezier Shape** | Use the **Bezier Shape** tool to define a Bezier curve around which ProBuilder extrudes a Mesh. **Warning:** Use **New Bezier Shape** with caution. This tool is experimental and still under development. If you use this tool, it might reduce ProBuilder's stability. For more information, refer to [Bezier Shape tool](bezier.md). |
```

| **New Shape** | Create new ProBuilder mesh shapes such as cylinders, arches, and stairs. For more information, refer to [Shape tool](shape-tool.md). |
| **Open Lightmap UV Editor** | Change the settings for generating lightmap UVs. For more information, refer to [Lightmap UV Editor](lightmap-uv.md). |
| **Open Material Editor** | Apply materials to objects or faces. For more information, refer to [Material Editor](material-tools.md). |
| **Open Smoothing Editor** | Create smooth and rounded or sharp and hard cornered edges. For more information, refer to [Smooth Group Editor](smoothing-groups.md). |
| **Open UV Editor** | Apply textures to objects or faces. For more information, refer to [UV Editor](uv-editor.md). |
| **Open Vertex Color Editor** | Apply or paint vertex colors onto meshes. For more information, refer to [Vertex Colors](vertex-colors.md). |
| **Open Vertex Position Editor** | Enter specific translation coordinates to modify vertex positions. For more information, refer to [Positions Editor](vertex-positions.md). |

## Edit

Edit shapes.

| **Menu item** | **Description** |
| --- | --- |

> | **Edit PolyShape** | |

Author: @JonMUnity or @modrimkus-unity for some reason these two are never available for me.

Author: Seriously, not available for a shape, ever. 
Also I have to wonder why we have this, since the same fields are in the Inspector.

Author: Oh I caught something here. 
I never got it for shape because I would right-click > ProBuilder > pick a shape. The Edit Shape option only appears for shapes you created from the main menu, even though it's the same list of shapes.

Author: @modrimkus-unity if you create a shape through the Hierarchy's right-click menu, it doesn't ever get the main menu > Tools > ProBuilder > Edit option active.

Reviewer: This is definitely a bug! I just reproduced it. @modrimkus-unity, you might want to look into this

Reviewer 2: @suearkinunity, @JonMUnity I see the confusion but this is by design (though not very transparent to the user). The main menu's path to a Cube is : `Tools -> Probuilder -> Editors -> *New Shape* -> Cube`, the hierarchy's `Probuilder -> Cube`, the key difference being the **New Shape** hint. The main menu action creates a procedurally editable PB Shape Mesh where the hierarchy menu a regular PB Mesh so that's why you don't get "Edit Shape" for the later. The hierarchy menu action functions that way to stay in parity with `3D -> Cube` for example, which just instantly spawns a mesh without engaging any creation tool.

In general, whether or not `... -> Edit Shape` is available depends on the presence of `ProBuilderShape` component on the GameObject. Main menu cube vs hierarchy cube components:

<img width="993" alt="PBShapeCube" src="https://github.com/Unity-Technologies/com.unity.probuilder/assets/80063635/cc69ea26-1ebf-4a15-b5d1-fe04ead0631e">

<img width="1012" alt="PBCube" src="https://github.com/Unity-Technologies/com.unity.probuilder/assets/80063635/e3885b05-5f21-4d27-aa3e-28a9173eef28">

Reviewer: I see. Thanks for the explanation, @modrimkus-unity .

Author: @modrimkus-unity from a user perspective, there are two types of Cubes under ProBuilder, and nothing hinting about that in the Cube name? A difference in the menu layout (ProBuilder > New Shape rather than right-click > ProBuilder) isn't a strong enough hint, since these are two different menus so some layout differences are not meaningful for the user.

> | **Edit PolyShape** | |

Author: ```suggestion
| **Edit PolyShape** | Edit a shape you created with **Tools** > ProBuilder** > **Editors** > **New Shape**. |
```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| **Edit PolyShape** | Edit a poly shape you created with **Tools** > ProBuilder** > **Editors** > **New PolyShape**.  |
```

> | **Edit shape** |  Edit a shape you created with **Tools** > ProBuilder** > **Editors** > **New Shape**. |

Author: ```suggestion
| **Edit shape** |  Edit a shape you created with **Tools** > **ProBuilder** > **Editors** > **New Shape**. |
```

## Interaction

Interact with your selections.

| **Menu item** | **Description** |
| --- | --- |
| **Toggle Drag Rect Mode** | To limit the drag selection to elements that are fully inside the drag rectangle, set the **Rect** action to **Complete**. For more information, refer to [Rect](Selection_Rect_Intersect.md). |
| **Toggle Drag Selection Mode** | To select any elements that intersect with the drag rectangle, set the **Rect** action to **Intersect**. For more information, refer to [Rect](Selection_Rect_Intersect.md). |
| **Toggle Handle Orientation** | Toggle between the three orientation states for Scene handles (**Global**, **Local**, or **Normal**). For more information, refer to [Orientation](HandleAlign.md). |
| **Toggle Select Back Faces** | Define whether drag selection selects or ignores hidden elements. For more information, refer to [Select Hidden](Selection_SelectHidden.md). |
| **Toggle X Ray** | Show or hide any selected hidden geometry. For more information, refer to [Selection X-Ray](preferences.md#sel-xray). |

> 

Author: ```suggestion

**Note:** The **Toggle Drag Selection Mode** option is now in the **Tool Settings** overlay.

```

Reviewer: I'm on the fence about this one. We're really violating the timeless documentation principle here. However, users *do* need to know...

> **Note**: This submenu is only available when you enable the [experimental features preference](preferences.md#experimental). Experimental features aren’t ready for public use, but are included for users to try out early, and report issues/feedback. 

##  Repair

Repair problems with ProBuilder meshes in the scene.

| **Menu item** | **Description** |
| --- | --- |
| **Rebuild All ProBuilder Objects** | Rebuilds mesh representations from stored ProBuilder data for each GameObject in the scene. If you have a lot of GameObjects in a scene, this can take a while. |
| **Rebuild Shared Indexes Cache** | Discards all shared vertex position data and rebuilds based on proximity. |
| **Remove Degenerate Triangles** | Deletes triangles on a mesh that are either taking up no space, or are duplicates. |
| **Check for Broken ProBuilder References** | Checks for and repairs any missing or broken ProBuilder references in the scene. |

## Debug

Change logging preferences. 

| **Menu item** | | **Description** |
| --- | --- | --- |
| **Log Output** | | Define where ProBuilder writes messages to: the Unity Console or to a log File. |

> | | **Console** | | Write to the Console. |
> | | **File** | | Write to a file. When you select **File**, you can also set the **Log Path** and **open** the log file. |
> | | **Log Path** | | Set the log file path (select **...***). |
> | | **open** | | Open the saved **ProBuilderLog.txt** log file. |

Reviewer: These are formatted incorrectly. 
```suggestion
| | **Console** |  Write to the Console. |
| | **File** |  Write to a file. When you select **File**, you can also set the **Log Path** and **open** the log file. |
| | **Log Path** | Set the log file path (select **...***). |
| | **Open** | Open the saved **ProBuilderLog.txt** log file. |
```
